Before you ever pick up a phone, I need you
to understand something.
Every lead sitting in our CRM is a real
person going through something real.
They're not a number. They're not a hot lead
or a cold lead.
They're a person with a house and a problem.
If you understand what they're going through
before you call, you're going to have
better conversations, build more trust, and
close more deals than someone who just dials
and wings it. That's not a guess.
That's what we've seen over and over again.
Not every homeowner is someone we can help.
We're looking for a specific type of seller,
someone who has a property they need to
sell, and a situation where going the
traditional route just doesn't make sense for
them. Here are the situations we see most
often.
Inherited property. Someone passes away and
leaves a house to their kids or their
relatives. Those relatives often live in a
different city.
They don't want to manage the property.
They don't have money for repairs.
And they don't want to fly in and deal with
tenants or contractors.
They just want it handled.
This is one of our biggest lead sources, and
these conversations tend to be emotional,
so be ready for that.
Financial pressure. Behind on mortgage
payments.
Facing pre-foreclosure or actual
foreclosure.
Tax liens piling up. They need to sell fast
to stop the bleeding.
Going the traditional route, listing it,
staging it, waiting for a buyer, waiting for
financing to clear. That takes months.
These sellers don't have months.
Tired landlords. They bought a rental property
years ago thinking it would be passive
income. Now they've got bad tenants who won't
pay, maintenance issues every other week,
vacancies eating into their savings, and
they're just done.
They've hit a wall and they want out.
You'll hear a lot of sighing on these calls.
Property condition. The house needs major
work.
Roof, foundation, mold, fire damage,
hoarding situations.
It can't be listed on the MLS in its current
condition, and the seller can't afford the
repairs to get it there.
We buy it as is, which is exactly what they
need to hear.
Divorce. When couples decide to part ways,
selling their home can become a pressing
issue. Emotions run high, and the urgency to
sell often increases.
As the neutral party, your role is to
facilitate a smooth sale, make sure both parties
feel heard and respected, and help them move
forward.
And sometimes, life just happens.
A job relocation on short notice, health
issues that mean they can't maintain the
property anymore, a death in the family,
downsizing because the house is too much to
handle. These situations create urgency and
emotional complexity.
The seller needs simplicity and speed, and
someone who's not going to make it harder.
Out-of-state owners.
They own a property in one of our markets,
but they live somewhere else entirely.
Managing it from a distance is a headache.
They might have a property manager eating
into whatever rent they're collecting, or the
place might be sitting vacant.
They want to cash out without having to deal
with any of it.
Now here's the distinction you need to make
on every single call.
Is this person motivated to sell, or are
they just curious?
A motivated seller has a reason and a
timeline.
They don't just want to sell someday, when
the stars align.
They need to sell soon.
There's something pushing them.
Financial pressure? A deadline?
An emotional weight they can't carry
anymore?
An unmotivated seller is just exploring.
They'd sell if someone walked up and offered
them full retail, but there's no real
urgency, no pain, no reason to accept a
discounted offer.
These people will waste your time if you let
them, so you need to learn to tell the
difference fast.
The tricky part is that motivation isn't
always obvious.
Sometimes the seller says, I'm just seeing
what you'd offer, and underneath that,
they're three months behind on payments and
too embarrassed to say it out loud to a
stranger on the phone.
That's where good questions come in, and
we'll get into that in a later section.
When you're on a call, listen for phrases
like these.
They signal real motivation.
I inherited this house and I don't know what
to do with it.
I just need this off my plate.
I can't afford to fix it up.
I'm behind on payments, my tenants just
trashed the place, I'm going through a divorce,
I'm moving and I need to sell fast.
I've had it listed and it's not selling.
I just want to be done with it.
When you hear language like that, you're
probably talking to someone we can help.
Pay attention to it. Write it down in your
notes.
There are also situations where we can't
help, and you need to recognize those too, so
you're not spending time on leads that
aren't going anywhere.
If they've got an active listing agreement
with a Realtor, we generally can't work that
deal unless they're willing to cancel.
If the person on the phone isn't actually
the owner, or they can't make the decision to
sell because there's a trust involved or
multiple family members who all have to agree,
you need to figure that out early.
If there's no equity, and they owe more than
the property is worth, with no creative
deal structure possible, it's probably not a
fit.
And if it's a commercial building or vacant
land, that's outside what we do.
Here's the thing I really want to stick with
you from this section.
Before you call a seller, think about what
it's like to be on the other end.
These sellers are getting five, sometimes
ten calls a day from people just like you.
Every cold caller, every investor, every We
Buy Houses company is hitting the same list.
By the time that seller gets to you, they've
already answered the same questions from
multiple strangers.
They're skeptical, they're tired of the
calls, some of them are borderline hostile
because of it.
Your job is to be different from all those
other callers.
Not by having a slicker pitch or a faster
talk track, by actually listening.
By taking the time to understand what's
going on in their life.
By treating them like a human being instead
of a transaction.
The sellers who end up closing with us don't
do it because we offered the most money.
We usually don't. They close with us because
they trust us.
And that trust starts right here, with
understanding who they are and what they're going
through, before you ever say hello.
You're doing great!
Next up, you'll meet a few of these sellers
face to face.
I'll see you there.